you
if
in hearing the utterance of animal
of witness whether he had seen on no no
matter if he does not tell it he bears
guilt or if a person touches any unclean
thing whether it is the carcass of an
unclean beast or the carcass of unclean
livestock or the carcass of unclean
creeping things and he is unaware of it
he also shall be unclean and guilty or
if he touches human uncleanness whatever
uncleanness with which a man may be
defiled and he is unaware of it when he
realizes it then he shall be guilty or
if a person swears speaking fort lessly
with his lips to do evil or to do good
whatever it is that a man may pronounced
by an oath and he is unaware of it when
he realizes it then he shall be guilty
in any of these matters and it shall be
when he is guilty in any of these
matters that he shall confess that he
has sinned in that thing and he shall
bring his trespass offering to the Lord
for his sin which he has committed a
female from the flock a lamb or a kid of
the goats as a sin offering so the
priest shall make atonement for him
concerning his sin if he is not able to
bring a lamb then he shall bring to the
Lord for his trespass which he has
committed two turtledoves or two young
pigeons one as a sin offering and the
other is a burnt offering
and he shall bring them to the priests
who shall offer that which is for the
sin offering first and ring off its head
from its neck but shall not divide it
completely then he shall sprinkle some
of the blood of the sin offering on the
side of the altar and the rest of the
blood shall be drained out at the base
of the altar it is a sin offering and he
shall offer the second as a burnt
offering according to the prescribed
manner so the priest shall make
atonement on his behalf for his sin
which he has committed and it shall be
forgiven him but if he is not able to
bring two turtledoves or two young
pigeons then he who sinned shall bring
for his offering one tenth of an ephah
of fine flour as a sin offering he shall
put no oil on it nor shall he put
frankincense on it for it is a sin in
offering then he shall bring it to the
priest and the priest shall take his
handful of it as a memorial portion and
burn it on the altar according to the
offerings made by fire to the Lord it is
a sin offering the priest shall make
atonement for him for his sin that he
has committed in any of these matters
and it shall be forgiven him the rest
shall be the priests as a grain offering
then the Lord spoke to Moses if a person
commits a trespass and sins
unintentionally in regard to the holy
things of the Lord then he shall bring
to the Lord as his trespass offering a
ram without blemish from the flocks with
your valuation in shekels of silver
according to the shekel of the sanctuary
as a trespass offering and he shall make
restitution for the harm that he has
done in regard to the holy thing and
shall add one-fifth to it and give it to
the priest so the priest shall make
atonement for him with the RAM of the
trespass offering and it shall be
forgiven him if a person sins and
commits any of these things which are
forbidden to be done by the commandments
of the Lord though he does not know it
yet he is guilty and shall bear his
iniquity and he shall bring to the
priest a ram without blemish from the
flock with your valuation as a trespass
offering so the priest shall make
atonement for him regarding his
ignorance in which he erred and did not
know it and it shall be forgiven him it
is a trespass offering
he has certainly trespassed against the
Lord